san francisco this is sherman skolnick
who is a special investigator in chicago
about
the mysterious death of mrs e howard
hunt wife of howard hunt
convicted watergate conspirator and now
to continue with will the real
conspirators please stand up
the fact sheet presented by sherman
skolnik read by dennis levitt
kpfk pacifica radio in los angeles
one the people upwards of 12 persons
connected in one way or another with
watergate
boarded united airlines flight 553 on
the afternoon of december 8
1972. they had something in common
that week there had been a gas pipeline
lobbyist meeting as part of the american
bar association meeting in washington dc
it was conducted by roger moreau his
secretary was nancy parker
among those attending were ralph
blodgett and james krueger both of them
attorneys for the northern national gas
company of omaha nebraska
associated with them were lon bayer who
is an attorney for kansas nebraska
natural gas company
wilbur erickson president of the federal
land bank in omaha
this was a belligerent group determined
to blow the lid off the watergate case
the reason former u.s attorney general
john mitchell and his friends running
the justice department
were putting the spear into northern
natural gas some officials of that firm
and its subsidiaries were indicted on
federal criminal charges on september 7
1972 in omaha chicago and hammond
indiana
the charge bribery of local officials in
northwest indiana and illinois
in order to let the gas pipeline go
through this according to the chicago
daily news of 9872
to blackmail their way out of these
charges the omaha firm had
uncovered documents showing that
mitchell while he was attorney general
in 1969
dropped anti-trust charges against a
competitor of northern natural gas
that competitor was el paso natural gas
the dropping of the charges against el
paso
was worth some 300 million dollars a
spokesman for mitchell belatedly claimed
in march 73
that mitchell had disqualified himself
in 1969
because mitchell's law partner
represented el paso
the justice department under mitchell
dropped the charges
period about the same time mitchell
through a law partner as nominee
got a stock interest in el paso gas and
oil interests such as el paso gulf
resources and others
contributed heavily to nixon's spy fund
they were supervised by mitchell
pipeline official kruger was carrying
the mitchell documents on the plane
he had told his wife that he had in his
possession irreplaceable papers of a
sensitive nature
for months after the crash his widow
demanded that united airlines turn over
to her
his baggage it later came out in the
pipeline trial in hammond that blodgett
had been browbeating federal officials
to drop the criminal charges just prior
to the crash
dorothy hunt watergate payoff woman who
offered executive clemency directly on
behalf of nixon to some of the watergate
defendants
was seeking to leave the united states
with over two million dollars in cash
as well as negotiables that she had
gotten or stolen from the committee to
re-elect the president
she and her husband e howard hunt the
convicted watergate conspirator
were a c.i.a couple two agents married
and living together
early in december 72 both were
threatening to blow the lid off the
white house if one
he wasn't freed of the criminal charges
and two they didn't both get several
million dollars
you see the memo of the watergate spy
james mccord
before the urban committee outlined some
of this hunt claimed according to mccord
to have the data necessary to impeach
nixon mccord said that matters were
coming to a head early in december
seventy two
mrs hunt was unhappy with her job going
all over the country to bribe defendants
and witnesses in the bugging case
she wanted out mrs hunt was on her way
to arrange to take the money out of the
country
possibly costa rica through harold c
carlstead whose wife was mrs hunt's
cousin
carlstead does accounting and tax work
for mobster owned businesses in the
chicago area
he operates two holiday inn motels in
chicago's south suburbs
carlson's motel and torrance in the
south suburb of chicago
is a favorite hangout for gangsters and
dope traffickers such as cool freddy
smith grover barnes and the late sam de
stefano
he's just to name a few mrs hunt had a
ten thousand dollars in untraceable cash
b
forty thousand dollars in so-called
barker bills tracy
traceable to watergate spy bernard
barker and c
upwards of two million dollars in
american express money orders
travelers checks and postal money orders
this according to testimony before the
ntsb
on june 13th and 14th of this year
carlstead issued a fake cover story that
had only ten
thousand dollars that story was
swallowed by most of the press
mrs hunt got on flight 553 with michelle
clark
she was a cbs network news woman going
to do an exclusive story on watergate
mrs hunt mitchell nixon
the story could have destroyed nixon at
that time mrs clark had
lots of insight into the bugging and
cover-up through her boyfriend who was a
cia operative
in the summer of 72 prior to any major
revelations of watergate
ms clark tried to pick the brains of
chicago congressman george collins
disregarding the bugging of the
democratic headquarters
after the crash michelle clark's
employer cbs network news
ordered and demanded that her body be
cremated possibly to conceal foul play
also on the plane were four or more
people who knew about a labor union
that had given a large donation to the
committee to re-elect the president to
head off an indictment of a chicago
labor
hoodlum who matter which is currently
being investigated by the committee
for many years like clockwork won
chicago and went to washington on monday
and came back friday afternoon on flight
553 or its equivalent
he is lawrence t o'connor apartment 5c
999 north lakeshore drive
chicago on friday december 8 72
he received a call from someone he knows
in the white house telling him not to
take flight 553
but to go instead to a special meeting
also getting on flight 553 was a hitman
pursuing mrs hunt and the others and
going under the cover of being a top
narcotics official
with a drug abuse law enforcement he
used the name harold r
metcalf he is an unusual narc and that
he works directly for nixon
metcalf told the pilot he was packing a
gun and so metcalf was assigned seat 17b
that is near the stewardesses jump seat
and also near the food galley in the
rear door
after the crash he walked out of the
cracked open fuselage wearing a jumpsuit
a former military intelligence
investigator who uses his credentials to
get into the crash site
identified the person posing as harold
metcalf as an overseas cia parachute spy
also see metcalf's statement about being
a narc and his gun
that's in the ntsb docket sa-435
dated 614-73 metcalf evidently
supervised certain foul play
possibly cyanide directed at certain
passengers but he did not know
the overall plan one of our staff
investigators confronted metcalf about a
week after the crash
a metcalf who was supposedly a
government narcotics big
shot knows nothing about dope b in
response to our question
did you know the plane was sabotaged he
blurted out half a sentence
it was not supposed to be turning people
he left the room evidently he has done a
double cut out
an espionage term for an operative to be
himself eliminated by someone else
his survival was an oversight
[Applause]
two the plane to do a proper job in
sabotaging an airplane you have to know
its weaknesses this particular boeing
737 number
n9031u had chronic trouble in the month
preceding the crash
with its captains altimeter and its air
data computer two of the most important
instruments on the plane the captain's
altimeter for example must operate at 28
volts dc
an increase in amperage or voltage in
the electrical system
would cause the instruments to
malfunction the plane was delayed in
departure by about 10 to 15 minutes
enough time for a skilled person to
strip down the bus bar at a certain
point
and install a device that shorts out
upon descent
the government's own records show the
later manifestation of this
in the last 15 minutes of the flight
circuit breakers began popping in the
cockpit
causing the tail flight recorder the air
data computer and other instruments to
short out
the transcript of the soul surviving
record the tape of the cockpit
voice recorder shows this from the
intercockpit discussions
the captain says quote sounds to me a
circuit breaker perhaps
then the second officer says ha an
unidentified voice
deleted probably by the fbi according to
this report
says something then the captain said
yeah i just meant
i thought you'd better check everything
ah the cockpit voice recorder when found
was turned over to the fbi
flight 553 needed its instruments
visibility was one to two miles
ceiling varied from 400 to some one
thousand feet
with low enough clouds coming down to a
hundred feet as for the national weather
service
they say that the runway visual range
recorder was not working
a major radio navigational instrument is
the airport outer marker
also called by the street name it's on a
outer marker at midway airport is in the
vicinity of 87th and kedzie
and is called by some the kedzie
localizer the midway airport outer
marker stopped working as flight 553
approached it
the captain said quote is kedzie
localizer off off the air is that it
and then referring to an inbound on
runway number 31
left that was he saw a propeller driven
plane coming in ahead of them on the
same runway
propeller planes though were supposed to
land on 31 right
the captain's altimeter would not work
below 3 400 feet
an aviation expert saw flight number 553
at about 450 feet near
73rd and kedzie this to the far right of
the corner on the outer marker
the ntsb tried to conceal this data by
improper questions of their witness
william simone
who later became a witness for this
committee
some of the intentional blunders on the
ground are a
in the last 15 minutes of flight 553 its
speed was erratic
it was being watched by some of the most
highly sophisticated radar equipment and
computers in the world yet
although they claim they were told to
slow down after 23 sweeps of the radar
the plane was still going 210 knots per
hour and it was being watched by the
chicago airport control at o'hare
airport
another interesting point brought out in
this is cyanide
the pilot prophetically named captain
whitehouse and six of the watergate
passengers
had a very high cyanide content higher
than they could have gotten from a
so-called aircraft
cabin fire captain whitehouse had four
times as much as necessary to kill him
that's 3.9 micrograms per milliliter
according to one of the exhibits at the
hearing michelle clark's employer cbs
network news
wanted immediate cremation of her body
foul play is evident since
how else were these people singled out
for cyanide of the 43 that died in the
crash
remember hitman harold metcalf was
sitting near the food galley
section 9 the fbi after the crash we
made public statements about 200 fbi and
dia people
refusing to show their credentials and
having taken over the crash site
coincident with the crash or just
shortly before
we were called liar then on june 13 1973
chairman john reed of the national
transportation safety board
told the house government activities
subcommittee that he sent a letter to
the fbi that a
never in living memory had the fbi acted
as in the flight
553 crash reed said that 50 fbi agents
came into the crash zone shortly after
the crash
b one fbi agent proceeded into midway
control tower
and took over the tape relating to
flight 553 without asking permission
and c before the ntsb investigators
could do so
the fbi conducted 26 interviews
including
the surviving flight attendants the fbi
interviews were completed within 20
hours of the crash
section 11 the cover-up note this
chronology
a december 9th 1972 one day after the
crash
white house aide eagle crow jr also
involved in the ellsberg burglary caper
was appointed under secretary of
transportation supervising the national
transportation safety board and the
federal aviation administration
they are the two agencies supposedly
going to investigate the crash of flight
v december 19 1972 white house deputy
assistant to nixon
and secretary to the cabinet alexander
butterfield is appointed the new head of
the faa
butterfield who is an air force officer
for 20 years was also a cia aviation
liaison
see for example jack anderson's column
in the chicago daily news of 5873
c dwight chapin nixon's appointment
secretary and mentioned in the watergate
scandal
becomes five weeks after the crash a top
executive with united airlines at their
home office in chicago
chapin had no previous business
experience at the original crash
hearings in february 73
he threatened media people with
reprisals as they mentioned sabotage
reprisals such as using clay whitehead
nixon's communication czar
to seek the breakup of the networks on
anti-trust charges
d even before the crash herbert comback
nixon's personal attorney
has been the lawyer for united airlines
and marriott corporation which has an
airplane and flight food service for
airlines
at 12th point the original national
transportation safety board hearings on
the crash started february
73 when they refused the documentation
of this committee
and testimony regarding sabotage and
robbery we sued them
the upshot was a reopened hearings in
june of 73
when skolnick produced over 1300 pages
of documentation
and five witnesses the 13th point
concerns the media
the establishment media has lied about
the crash of flight 553 from the
beginning
several of the establishment papers
radio and tv told a monstrous lie
that we had no documentation at the
reopened hearings
some smaller radio and tv stations have
presented a far
more fair presentation point 14 is who
the highest level of the federal
government including nixon had an
interest in the murder of mrs e howard
hunt
and the other watergate people on the
plane his strikes force tried to
sabotage their own case against the
cyrilli airplane robbery gang
because it involved watergate the
establishment media interlocked
financially with united airlines
has so far not told the truth about
flight 553.
we've been reading from a fact sheet
produced and circulated by the citizens
committee to clean up the courts
chairman of sherman scolnick of chicago
he is known for
the fact that he is one of the first
ones who investigated otto kerner
otto kerner you'll remember used to be
the the governor of
illinois as well as a federal court
judge he is now behind bars having been
convicted on 18
counts of perjury fraud and other
charges
we're speaking with sherman skolnik the
chairman of the citizens committee to
clean up the courts
um beginning mr scolnan can you give us
a brief history of the citizens
committee why it was founded and maybe
some of the investigations you've been
instrumental in
been active in combating researching and
investigating corruption in the middle
west in particular our work is
fairly well known at least in this area
we uncovered the information
that forced the government to indict
kerner
they had to after what we dug up um
the state supreme court of illinois half
of them resigned after our disclosures
four years ago
the chief deputy clerk of the federal
court in chicago got 10 years in jail
based on our disclosures
so we've been active in this field of
research and investigation for
10 years or more a plane crash occurred
last december 8th at the beginning
it wasn't of interest to us however we
developed an informant within the saa
and that informant told us that we ought
to be interested because the people
on the plane there was a dozen people
connected to watergate
in the beginning we thought it was only
mrs hunt as they were murdered
by will of this crash to to silence them
and also to give the opportunity to
steal from their possessions certain
documents and valuables
that nixon and the committee re-elect
the president did not want
circulating around and from that point
forward we began developing information
we were opposed i would say every step
of the way by the news media
i'm very knowledgeable about the media
i'm a former news media teacher i used
to teach at a small college in chicago
many of my former students are scattered
throughout broadcasting and
publishing throughout the country uh i
realized that with united airlines the
operator of the plane we're going to get
a lot of static as we look
there's a lot of space been devoted in
some newspapers to putting us down
uh the scarborough tribune for example
on the washington post
have both published the most uh
fraudulent stories i've ever
seen namely that we have no
documentation
when in fact on on june 13th and 14th
the hearings were reopened of the
national transportation safety board
they were reopened
especially for our presentation we
presented over 1300 documents and five
witnesses
which made a very substantial case with
evidence
that the plane was not an accident and
that there were
massive failures both on the ground and
in the cockpit of the plane which we
point by point over a two day period of
hearings
pointed out it was such an overkill it
could not have been an accident
the major radio navigational beam failed
uh major weather instruments suddenly
failed on that day
uh the major instruments of the cockpit
as the plane
approached the airport uh six of the
watergate people on the plane had
uh a high content of cyanide higher than
they could have gotten from a fire
and so on the whole hundreds of
documented facts which the government
has tried to wiggle out of in which the
news media has tried to ignore
now why do you feel that the news media
have ignored this because much of the
information which you've uncovered
has been so to speak public me as a
former news media teacher it may not be
evident to some of your listeners the
news media abc
cbs and nbc are interlocked financially
with the major airlines uh united
airlines is owned by the chase manhattan
bank of new york the bank itself is
owned by the rockefeller family and
senator charles percy of illinois
these are some of the most powerful
people in the united states
in turn united airlines is financially
interlocked with the washington post and
newsweek
so we have the most massive opposition
if we're right some awfully big people
are wrong
and they're not going to permit a
discussion of it and so only smaller
radio and tv stations
and some smaller newspapers dealt with
this subject
at all i point out to you that uh
shortly after i was on a tv station in
los angeles khj tv
stan borman was fired practically right
on the spot
for interviewing me about the midway
crash uh there is tremendous opposition
to the facts being related about the
midway crash and about the 12 people on
the plane connected to watergate
have you tried to present your
information to the senate watergate
committee
we have i have a letter in our in our
position signed by
senator sam irvin the chairman of the
committee he says
that the subject matter of the death of
mrs hunt who died on that plane
is not within his interest i find it
monstrous to
for him to send such a letter however if
he says it's not within his interest i
must accept
his letter at face value what about with
today's testimony by tony lashowitz that
he described giving money to mrs e
howard hunt
what do you make of this i would say
that the select
committee the watergate committee is
skirting the issue
there are several committees of congress
and the senate
who have interviewed me at length who
have talked to our staff at length
they've seen our documentation
they know that we stole the documents
from the government's files
they know that the safety board is up
the wall about
our our disclosures and yet the select
committee will not do anything maybe in
time they will
sniff around the edges of the watergate
plane class but
uh to this time i don't think we're not
interested they've told me in writing
they've told me on the phone
i have to accept for the moment what
they say
now a plane crash involving the death of
over 40 people while it's certainly not
on the scale of the death of indochina
is certainly uh one of what one would
think of interest to a lot of people
why why hasn't the senate committee uh
opened this up do you think there are
reasons
because their only uh their thing is
only investigating
nixon or around the edges of nixon in
respect to non-violent situations
bugging and breaking
uh we directly accuse the highest level
of the government including the
president of murder
mrs hunt was about to put the finger
directly upon nixon
her and her husband had information to
teach the president they have both been
blackmailing the president
on the watergate plane were carried over
two million dollars that they had
blackmailed out of the committee to
reelect the president
that has fallen into the hands of
some gangsters that specialize in
airplane crimes and uh we know a great
deal about it and
howard hunt at this point only wants
more money
he evidently does not want to do
anything about his wife dorothy
now it would seem to me that if they
wanted to kill mrs e howard hunt and
possibly michelle clark and a few others
that it would be easier to do it when
they weren't on an airplane causing the
death of over 40 people
it's seven months later and
the only ones that really truly
understand what we're talking about from
a technical standpoint about the
instruments about the
uh ground controllers being part of this
and how they were part of it
uh only other aviation people the
general public looks at it and they do
not know
what it means when we say that the 24
hour ago
outer marker major radio navigational
instrument at midway airport failed only
as this plane approached it and then
went back on the air as it left
now that is important to to to people
that fly it's important to pilot
but he does not necessarily ring a bow
with the public
now you wrote about a certain lawrence
o'connor who normally flew flight 553
but he didn't take the flight that night
because of a phone call from the white
house that's true
we said that to the safety board we say
it publicly we know of a man that took
that same plane
every friday afternoon for more than a
dozen years
and returned from washington he had
business every week in washington and he
took that plane or its equivalent except
on december 8th
when he received a call from a friend of
the white house who says do not take
553 stay over or you have to come to a
special meeting
who is lawrence o'connor and how do you
know that he received that phone call
sir
we have interviewed a great number of
people about that but that
point is no longer a dispute or a
question
it's an accepted fact uh
his neighbors in the building where he
lives knows the man they know he's been
traveling that same route
for a dozen years he mentioned it to a
close
friend of his and from that information
we compiled a great deal
we take another half an hour to tell
what all we know about the man he's
rather
sort of a mysterious businessman that
has white house connections
i see thank you very much for talking
you were listening to a special report
on the mysterious death of mrs e howard
hunt by sherman skolnick
the interviewer with stannis levitt of
kpfk pacifica radio los angeles
we should point out that much of mr
skolnik's evidence is unsubstantiated
and for a special report on that subject
should listen to kpfa on september 4th
at 9 00 pm
for a documentary on the midway plane
crash was it a conspiracy
[Music]
ladies and gentlemen united airlines
flight 553 from washington's national
airport
will land at chicago's midway airport in
two minutes
please extinguish all cigarettes and
bring your chairs to the full upright
position
[Music]
the wake of daily revelations of bribery
forgery
burglary and the destruction of
government documents by those implicated
in the watergate conspiracy
the american public has learned to
expect anything in the next day's
newspaper headlines
but a chicago-based organization has
made the most serious charges so far
accusing high government officials of
murder sabotage and robbery
in connection with the midway plane
crash of december 8th
the plane of boeing 737 united airlines
flight 553 on route from washington's
national airport to chicago's midway
airport on friday december 8th at 2
27 p.m circled for a landing but never
made it
striking a high tension line and plowing
into a row of houses
about a mile from the airport 45 persons
were killed
including mrs dorothy hunt wife of the
since convicted watergate conspirator e
howard hunt
and herself the payoff woman for hush
money to the watergate defendants
cbs news correspondent michelle clark
ralph blodgett and james krueger
two gas pipeline attorneys allegedly
carrying documents linking a gas
pipeline case with the water gate
and two unidentified gas pipeline
lobbyists
sherman skolnik the man who framed the
midway conspiracy theory
is a self-styled investigator and the
founder and chairman of a ten-year-old
non-profit chicago organization
called the citizens committee to clean
up the courts with the staff of three
dozen unpaid investigators and an army
of informants
skolnik is generally credited with
having forced the resignation of two
illinois supreme court judges
and convicting federal appeals court
judge and former illinois
governor otto kerner for bribery mail
fraud extortion perjury and tax evasion
but the prevalent attitude among lawyers
prosecutors and reporters
is that his investigative techniques are
more than questionable
and that he's wrong more often than
right he in turn has charged the press
and the federal aviation administration
with an attempted cover-up of the murder
sabotage conspiracy
at any rate the government has still not
considered a trace of truth to his
charges an official of the national
transportation
safety board the agency charged with
investigating air crashes
said flatly that the crash was the
result of pilot error and there was no
evidence of sabotage
but there are many events surrounding
the crash of flight 553 which are too
striking to pass over
i'm jan lignito and for the next hour or
so we'll take a look at the midway plane
crash to see if it was coincidence or
conspiracy
on the afternoon of december 8th the
plane was in route
from washington to chicago the plane
as it approached midway airport
was 200 feet too low
i should point out that we have
developed informants
within the faa who at the risk of their
neck
have told us a great deal we know that
there was a pinhole
in the altimeter we know that the pilot
was believed to have died before the
crash
there is now a dispute between the faa
and the cook county coroner a
pathologist
in the cook county coroner's office
contends that
the autopsy dealt with by him
shows using he claims the latest methods
shows that the pilot was dead
prior to the crash the pilot by the way
had an interesting name
captain wendell whitehouse perhaps a
very prophetic name
of the three people that died in the
cockpit
captain whitehouse according to the
government's own documents
was the only one with a cyanide level
of the some 45 people that died in the
crash
only what we feel are the important
people on the plane
had cyanide now if there was an aircraft
cabin fire due to plastics burning
then by random selection there would be
various people
who died in the crash whose bodies would
show
cyanide if the that is what they got
from the
plane crash fire oddly enough
it was only the pilot and the six
passengers that i have mentioned
mrs hunt michelle clark the two gas
pipeline attorneys mr blodgett mr
krueger
and two gas pipeline lobbyists that had
the cyanide level
we took this matter up with a very
prominent
toxicologist who we feel could be
impartial in this matter
he looked at the statistics and he says
well now this pilot has nine with too
many
i says well what does that mean in
layman's language
he said well one with would have been
enough to stop his lungs from
functioning
i said well how did he get the other
nine whips
and the toxicologist told us that he got
it
from either ingestion or injection
however the cook county coroner's office
has a very different story
edward shalgus the pathologist who
performed the autopsy
insisted that captain whitehouse's blood
had carbon monoxide in it
indicating that he was alive and in good
condition at the time of the crash
and in fact live for a long time
afterwards trapped in the cabin
chalgus and other pathologists have
pointed out that cyanide poisoning is
caused by combustion of plastic products
in this case the interior of the plane
which produces cyanide gas
he indicated that captain whitehouse's
death was definitely related to
inhalation leading to carbon monoxide
asphyxiation
and blood cyanide accumulation autopsies
were not performed on the two other
members of the flight crew
since the co-pilot was dismembered by
the crash and the flight engineer could
not be identified
skolnik also charged that abnormally
large traces of cyanide were found in
the bodies of the six watergate people
but the national transportation
safety boards report indicates quite the
opposite that none of the first
class passengers including dorothy hunt
james krueger and ralph blodgett
died of cyanide asphyxiation but rather
from a combination of burns
lacerations internal injuries and carbon
monoxide asphyxiation
which also killed all but three of the
passengers the remaining three did show
traces of cyanide asphyxia
but there is no indication that they
were in any way connected with watergate
we know this that on this plane
was sitting a very odd person who
survived the plane
crash by the name of harold metcalf
he was sitting in the jump seat next to
the food galley in the rear of the plane
seat b17 by the way we confronted him
a week after the crash
with the showing of what we knew at that
time that there was sabotage involved in
this plane
he was almost freaked out because as we
later
discovered from talking to him
and from piecing together other
information that he is what is known in
espionage as a double cutout
in other words his job was to deal with
the passengers
from his standpoint supposedly the
passengers that he dealt with
would die in the airport terminal after
the plane landed he evidently did not
know
that there was another group involved in
the plane that would deal
with the plane and put the plane down so
he survived the crash and he is nearly
freaked out
we again confronted him after he got off
the witness stand
when he testified during the crash
investigation in february
i asked him i said mr metcraft will you
allow the thought to cross your mind
that there was sabotage involved in this
plane
he nearly freaked out again he began
screaming at me at the in the lobby of
the crash investigation
there is another way that it is quite
simple to
doctor up a person's meal on a plane
by the way oddly enough this plane
was having lunch served as it was about
to land
which is not the customary procedure
the in-flight services
that prepare food for planes often use
day labor
any person can walk in there at the drop
of a hat and suddenly begin preparing
food
furthermore they have a sloppy method
any person without really identifying
himself merely saying
that he is mister this or misses that
can call up and say i'm a passenger on
flight 553
and i'm a diabetic a vegetarian or some
other
medical problem and i require a special
diet
that special diet will then catch up
with that person
on the plane and the diet may look
the same as the other food but in fact
be
part of a situation of foul play
it is true that harold metcalf a bona
fide agent of the office of drug abuse
and law enforcement who testified at the
first safety board hearing
was sitting in seat 17b next to the food
galley
but according to the stewardess in that
area 17b
was not the jump seat just what mr
metcalf was doing on board
flight 553 is not known but there's not
a shred of evidence which points to
skolnik's elaborate selective poisoning
plot
what's more several prominent
toxicologists whose identity is known
insisted cyanide poisoning by injection
or ingestion
could not be so precisely timed as to
take effect only minutes before the
crash
every plane is required to carry two
flight recorders as was this plane
the recorders are designed to survive a
possible crash and to be almost bomb
proof
in respect to flight 553
both recorders were really unavailable
for use by any crash investigation
one recorder in the cockpit
stopped functioning in a rare
malfunction
14 minutes before the crash
the housing of the recorder was
disassembled and long bolts removed
which is almost impossible to happen by
accident
the recorder in the tail
disappeared the tail fell off the plane
intact into the streets it was almost
not damaged that recorder
disappeared and showed up shortly before
the crash
with most of it blank we feel that this
is not statistically possible
that both flight recorders should end up
in this way
skullnick refused to reveal the identity
of the anonymous faa informant who told
them that flight 553 was sabotaged by
air traffic controllers
who misdirected the plane supposedly
already crippled by manipulated
malfunctions
as for his claim that the captain's
altimeter had been tampered with william
lamb the chief investigator of the crash
for the safety board
says that the captain's altimeter was
relatively undamaged by the crash
and was found to be working perfectly
the co-pilot's altimeter was too badly
damaged to be tested fully for defects
but according to captain john r mcdonald
a veteran accident investigator for the
airline pilots association
who testified at the hearings had there
been a massive electrical failure
the cockpit voice recorder transcript
would not have been available for
examination by skolnik or anyone else to
interpret
coincident almost simultaneous with the
crash
the crash zone was taken over by some
200 plain clothes people
in about 100 or more unmarked cars
police that we interviewed in the area
said that they were pushed out of the
area
now the reason this is strange is the
nearest federal facility
the federal building downtown chicago is
some 12 to 14 miles
from the crash zone the faa headquarters
in the northwest suburbs
are upwards of 25 to 30 miles
the police stations are only a minute or
two away from the crash zone
and yet these plainclothes people
who apparently did not wish
to even show their credentials took over
the entire crash zone
almost simultaneous with the crash how
did they get there that quickly
why did they push the police out of the
area
there is a presumption that they were
going to take mrs hunt
into custody with or without a crash
in any case it's odd that they came
there that quickly
before the police took over the crash
stone
[Music]
the most ominous evidence to support
skullnick's conspiracy theory revolves
around the arrival of 50 fbi agents
at the crash zone minutes before the
crash
jean bludo a chicago upi reporter
indicated that he arrived at the site 40
minutes after the crash
and saw numerous fbi agents in the area
but remarked that it was not an unusual
occurrence
later this year texas congressman jack
brooks subcommittee on governmental
activities
made further queries and learned from
the national transportation safety board
and the fbi that fewer than a dozen
bureau agents had assisted the board at
the crash site
then in a striking reversal in july of
this year
the fbi and the safety board confirmed
skolnik's allegations
that 50 agents had stormed the crash
zone shoving aside local chicago police
questioning airport employees and
examining the wreckage
while continuing with his investigation
brooks subcommittee noted that the
incident marked the first time in u.s
crash disaster history that the fbi had
overstepped its authority
taking over a crash investigation
without the permission of the safety
board
at the very least the incident reveals
that the fbi was aware of mrs hunt's
presence on board flight 553
and was monitoring her activities now as
to mrs hunt
she was carrying with her the following
fifty thousand dollars
ten thousand dollars has been described
to the media and the media bought that
story and used it
those were untraceable bills
an additional forty thousand dollars
works carried by her
in what is known as the barker money
bills with consecutive numbers traceable
to the watergate over and above that
she had upwards of two million dollars
in american express
money orders made out to cash to the
amount of a hundred dollars each
dorothy hunt remains the most mysterious
missing link in the chain connecting the
white house to payoffs to silence the
watergate defendants
what we do know is that she was the wife
of former cia
agent and convicted watergate
conspirator e howard hunt
that she took out a quarter of a million
dollars in flight insurance prior to
boarding flight 553
and that she was found dead at the crash
site with 10
585 dollars in untraceable hundred
dollar bills
she was supposedly taking the money to
chicago to invest in a motel
but press stories indicate several other
possibilities
that the ten thousand dollars was hush
money to the watergate defendants
or to mrs hunt herself or as the chicago
tribune reported
final payment on electronics equipment
while there's no evidence to support
skullnick's claim that mrs hunt stole
two million dollars from the committee
to re-elect the president
we do know that blackmail was taking
place new york policeman anthony
lassowitz told the watergate committee
in july
that he had secretly passed money to mrs
hunt through a complicated precision
time scheme
that involved hiding airport locker keys
in telephone booths
he said that mrs hunt who mentioned that
she had lost her job as a result of
watergate
tried to blackmail the white house to
the tune of four hundred and fifty
thousand dollars
and managed to get one hundred and fifty
four thousand dollars from nixon's
lawyer herbert comback
and in a memo that james mccord filed
with the senate watergate committee
he said quote hunt purportedly
threatened to blow the white house out
of the water
mrs hunt at that point in her
conversation with me
also repeated the statement which she
too had made before
which was that e howard hunt had
information which could impeach the
president
unquote three months after blackmailing
the white house and three hours after
boarding flight 553
dorothy hunt was the mystery dead in the
plane wreckage her husband in jail and
her children aired to a quarter of a
million dollars in flight insurance
the two gas pipeline lawyers were warned
in washington that they would never live
to get to chicago they were
part of a group of nine pipeline lawyers
representing the northern natural gas
company of omaha
now the officials of that company have
been since september of la
of 1972 under federal criminal
indictment
in hammond indiana chicago illinois and
omaha nebraska
the major competitor of that company is
the el paso natural gas company
in 1969 while john mitchell was the u s
attorney general
the justice department dropped
anti-trust charges against el paso
about that same time by way of a nominee
john mitchell got a stock interest in
that company
when we first made that charge in court
in march of 1972 a few weeks later for
the first time that we
have heard of a mr horace webb of the
justice department
said that mitchell four years previous
had disqualified himself from the net
from the northern
from the el paso natural gas case
because a
law partner of mitchells had been
an attorney for el paso
the attorneys for the omaha company
were carrying documents which we had
previously known about
to be used to blackmail the justice
department to drop the drop the federal
criminal charges
as the el paso stock transfer list
copies of which they carried with them
on the plane
could be used to show
that the former attorney general and
therefore friends of his in the justice
department
had a serious conflict of interest
regarding a three hundred million dollar
case
it was just recently that the high court
in washington
reversed the situation and reinstated
the anti-trust charges
in effect what happened in 69 was
that the justice department had won the
case on a lower level in the court
system
and el paso was appealing the case to
the u.s supreme court
the effect was that the justice
department was
confessing error as it is known and so
they
torpedoed the case and allowed el paso
to go free
mitchell as it has been pointed out
by the washington post and other papers
was in charge of a 305
000 espionage fund contained within the
watergate money
contributions of which were made to that
fund
by gas and oil companies one company has
already been
identified gulf resources another
company that would have been identified
would have been el paso natural gas
that was contained within the documents
in the possession of the do two gas
pipeline attorneys
in effect they were saying look if
you're going to burn some of our people
according to these documents we're going
to release that
this information to burn your people it
is a matter of record that in 1969
anti-trust charges were pending against
el paso
in connection with the construction of a
pipeline to the pacific northwest
as skolnick pointed out because his law
firm had represented el paso
mitchell disqualified himself from
ruling on the case
then deputy attorney general richard
klein deans decided to drop the action
against el paso
the point at which mitchell allegedly
acquired his interest in that company
but the suit was subsequently reinstated
by the supreme court
skolnik's claim that blodgett and kruger
were using the documents to blackmail
mitchell and the justice department into
dropping the charges against northern
and its subsidiaries
has not been substantiated since he
refuses to produce the stock transfer
list in question
which he says are still in his
possession somewhere out of the country
now as to how we became as a group
so privy to the information involving
this crash
it just so happens that one of our
volunteer staff investigators
alex j baudus of gary indiana
infiltrated an airplane robbery gang
known as the joseph cirelli mob
they were arrested five weeks after the
midway crash
charged with an offense committed by
them
in flight in another plane
last august the cirelli mob the airplane
robbery gang
was divided up into two basic functions
they had former aircraft technicians
and fences the technicians would
with the most sophisticated methods
steel
in flight from airplanes negotiable
securities
bonds and money from baggage
compartments
just to show how skilled they are
in the matter for which they are have
been charged and arrested in january of
1973 they robbed a plane from chicago to
milwaukee
which is in the air less than an hour
one of these former aircraft technicians
got into the washroom he had a special
key that only an insider
would know about or have which opened a
compartment
little known to to layman a compartment
between the toilet
and the baggage compartment and he
reached right in and took out a sack
of two over two million dollars in
negotiable bonds and securities
now being an aircraft technician and an
insider
he knew that the armored express or
brinks
was inclined to put their negotiable
security sacks
up against that wall in the toilet so
that when the plane landed
he simply got out of the washroom and
left his accomplice of course told a
stewardess
that uh his friend was in the washroom
vomiting and was ill
when the stewardess got into the
washroom there was nothing left by way
of any evidence to show anything
the sorely gang were arrested on a
criminal information
brought before a u.s magistrate baylog
in the federal court system in chicago
on the 24th floor of the federal
building in chicago
now our staff investigator had
infiltrated the workings of the surely
mob
he was to have been kept anonymous yet
there is an affidavit in the federal
court records that i mentioned
by a special agent of the fbi j john
dolan which identified for the first
time
our investigator
alex bottas
the prosecution was brought not by the
local u.s
attorney but by the elite prosecutors
of the federal government known as the
strike force or the national strike
force
headquartered in chicago and headed up
by sheldon davidson and douglas roller
their phone numbers by the way in
chicago are area code
three four 312-353-5269-353-5348 douglas
roller brought the cirelli mob
prosecution when they discovered that
the cirelli case
involved more than the than the
milwaukee
plane rip-off that in fact involved the
murder and sabotage and robbery
of the flight 553 carrying mrs hunt and
others
it was at that point that the the strike
force did not want to proceed
they obstructed in fact their own case
because their own documents filed in
court show
that alex bottos was a star witness in
this case
the case hinged upon it
they allowed permitted and condoned
that another federal prosecutor
send alex barros away for
so-called mental observation without
any written proof or written charge
without any trial or any hearing
now to those that think that this is
quite unconstitutional i agree
on april 9th of 73 jack anderson in his
column
pointed out without mentioning battles
that there is a place
in springfield missouri for keeping
political prisoners
known as the federal prison hospital
there
it was in that place that alex barros
was kept
it was in that same place by the way
that black secret service agent
abraham bolden was kept he was the one
that tried to tell the warren commission
that there was a conspiracy to
assassinate president kennedy involving
the c
i a and that this plan
was to have gone into effect three weeks
before dallas
within one day that mr bolden tried to
bring this before the warren commission
he was on the way to being framed by
perjured testimony
and sent to the so-called federal prison
hospital
which is a place really of total and
maximum security
bados an ex-marine who served time in
korea
last year did some informing for the
chicago strike force which was after the
joseph cirelli mob for the theft of 2.1
million dollars in securities
stolen off a northern central airline
chicago to milwaukee flight
in august of 1972. posing as a fence
under the name of alex doyle
badass allegedly infiltrated the cirelli
gang
saw the northern central securities and
also got a glimpse of money orders and
pipeline documents that he figured out
could only have come from flight 553
on march 5th alex barros was actually
arrested by gary indiana policeman on a
charge of impersonating an fbi agent
and turned over to federal authorities
who took him to a federal hospital in
springfield missouri
there he underwent examination for
delusions and acute paranoia
and was released 40 days later on april
20th with a clean bill of health
along with skolnik and the cirelli mob
barros who had previously been convicted
of impersonating a police officer
is the only one who has so far seen the
stolen pipeline documents
needless to say skolnik is a staunch
advocate of conspiracy theories in the
death of john f kennedy
he's charged the fbi the secret service
and chicago officials
with a conspiracy to kill kennedy on an
aborted trip to chicago
in early november 1973. he's also filed
suit
so far unsuccessfully to force the
national archives to release
documentation
which he says would prove his thesis now
we attempted to bring this information
at a public hearing conducted by isabel
burgess as the chairman of the board of
inquiry
of the national transportation safety
board
of the faa the hearings began
february 27 1973
supposedly to inquire in to the midway
crash
the hearings were dominated by very
high-classed
attorneys and talent from united
airlines
the operator of flight 553 pratt and
whitney
the manufacturers of the engines
boeing the maker of the airplane
and other persons that had an interest
in it
in fact there were a great crowd of
civil liability lawyers
who certainly would not want to hear the
word sabotage mentioned
because they were busy taking notes to
see what further evidence they could
find
of negligence they were in the audience
these civil liability lawyers
representing
various claimants witnesses and
survivors and widows and so on
of those that were victims on flight 553
in fact some of those civil liability
lawyers attempted to take me to lunch
and persuade us
not to continue making statements in the
lobby of the hearings about sabotage
the government found out for the first
time that alex bottos was in fact
connected with the citizens committee to
clean up the courts
because he and i sat together
at the crash investigation we talked to
reporters who somehow did not use it on
the air
from my knowledge as a news media
teacher
i knew that united airlines was using
their advertising power to keep this
off the air
when our testimony was refused by the
board chairman of this investigation
who i personally sought out and
delivered a letter
to in the lobby on
march 1st 73 we had no choice but to
bring a civil suit
against her for holding a public hearing
where
our documentation witnesses and
testimony respecting
what we contend is murder and sabotage
regarding the midway crash that that
information was not allowed to be
brought
into the public hearing
on march 2nd 1973
we had a summon served on miss
burgess by a cook county deputy sheriff
the attorney mr stone drier of the board
of inquiry
came out in the hall and tried to
negotiate with me i told him that the
case was not for sale
he said they did not wish to proceed
to any hearing or trial or defense of
the case i said well i'm a layman
representing myself
i'm not about to tell you how to defend
against our case
he said well we do not wish to proceed
with the case
within one business day
of the case being filed
on friday march 2nd alex barros
was in custody by the
federal marshals no written charges
no hearing no trial and he was kept
there for 40 days
it was only through the help and
assistance
of a local crime commission the
operating director
of the northwest indiana crime
commission
who was also involved in the
cirelli airplane robbery gang case that
we were able
to get alex barros released
on april 20th 1973
alex barros was released
to the operating director of the crime
commission
elmer jacobson there was a finding by a
staff psychiatrist that there was
nothing wrong with alex bottos
which meant that the whole thing of
sending him
was to take away the star witness
in the cirelli case involving the midway
crash
as well as other cases involving
in-flight
offenses on
monday
april 23rd 1973
there was a rare public press conference
by the northwest indiana crime
commission where they
publicly accused the strike force and
douglas roller
of fraud and connivance in respect to
having their star witness
alex barros taken away fraudulently and
falsely for so-called
mental observation
in other words various federal
agencies tried to obstruct the joseph
cirelli case
and we challenge the government now why
have they not proceeded
with the prosecution of the joseph
cirelli mob was it because they found
out
after arresting the surely mob in
january of 73
that the case also involved the midway
crash
and the watergate as to the crash itself
we must add the fact that we have a star
witness
that a parachute a package parachute
came out of the baggage compartment
without a person
but a package before the crash
now the sereli mob has
operated for more than 10 years without
getting caught
and they have the most sophisticated
methods of
robbing planes the cirelli mob was
arrested five weeks after the midway
plane crash for the august 1972 robbery
aboard northern central airlines and
it's unclear whether they've been
prosecuted for that offense
but if you're wondering how they
smuggled mrs hunt's stolen 2 million
dollars
out of an airplane that was about to
crash in flames and be encircled by 50
fbi agents
skolnik has the answer a small ball of
tinfoil with a parachute attached
thrown out of a private plane to screw
up the radar screen
while the real thing was dropped out of
flight 553
unfortunately every pilot question does
not agree
they all say that when an exit to a
plane is opened in flight
there is decompression in the cabin that
produces a tremendous swoosh of
air this would be noticed by passengers
and would also show up in the recording
of cockpit conversations
and none of the survivors of the crash
reported hearing or seeing anything
unusual until the plane had also crashed
about five or six weeks after
the crash near midway airport
nixon's appointment secretary who has
been linked to the watergate
dwight l chapin
made a statement that if he is not
granted executive
privilege and call to testify he will
so-called blow the whistle thereafter he
left the white house and about five or
six weeks after the midway crash in
other words five or six weeks
after december december 8th 1972
where does dwight chapin show up why he
shows up as a top executive
for united airlines whose headquarters
is in chicago
we believe that dwight chapin had
something to do
with the controlling of the press image
and press relations
regarding the crash investigation of the
of the midway crash the crash
investigation of course started february
1973. we believe that there is a link
between dwight shape and linked to the
watergate
being then linked to united airlines
we know from reading fletcher prouty's
book the secret team
that the central intelligence agency has
infiltrated the work of the faa
as to the crash investigation itself
the number one witness for the
government
was something that interested us a great
deal
here was a gentleman whose work required
him to be outdoors
on the street measuring asphalt
right under the flight path of flight
a mr simon innie working as an
asphalt paving salesman measured the
parking lot
paving at the nabisco factory at 73rd
and kedzie on the southwest side of
chicago
directly under the flight path of the
airplane his work required him to be
outdoors
oddly enough he was outdoors from two
o'clock to three o'clock that day
and the crash was about halfway into
that one hour period
it so happens that mr simmonini
is a retired faa inspector with 5 000
hours of flight time here is what we
feel
is a clincher mr simonini
works for a subsidiary of el paso
natural gas
involved in this plane crash by the way
of those documents
we interviewed mr simenini for hours
after his
testimony on the witness stand he could
not
explain how it was that he got
to that place
we believe however that mr simonini
[Music]
himself does not know how he got there
and
is probably telling the truth somebody
probably in his office steered him there
while it's a little naive to believe
that the advertising power of one
airline could suppress a conspiracy
story
the transfer of various nixon
administration officials
to key faa and united airlines positions
following the midway crash
does bear examination on december 9th
one day after the crash white house
eight eagle crow who was later forced to
resign
because of his involvement in the
break-in of daniel ellsberg's
psychiatrist's office was appointed
under secretary of transportation
his duties included supervising the
national transportation safety board
and federal aviation administration the
two agencies investigating the crash of
flight
553 on december 19
1972 white house deputy assistant to
nixon and secretary to the cabinet
alexander butterfield was appointed the
new head of the federal aviation
administration
butterfield you may remember was the
former aide to h.r haldeman
who in july testified before the senate
watergate committee
that nixon had ordered the secret
service to install devices
to record conversations in the oval
office
and even before the crash herbert
kalmbach president nixon's personal
attorney
had been the lawyer for united airlines
and marriott corporation
which has an airplane in flight food
service for airlines
now as to the documents the money
and the money orders that were stolen by
the cirelli
group from the midway plane
we know from our man
alex bottos who infiltrated the work of
the cirelli mob
that those things were put on the market
the criminal underworld shall we say
within two days after the crash the
cirelli group was seeking to sell
the barker money the two million dollars
in uh
money orders and hundred dollar
denominations
and the mitchell documents for
upwards of five million dollars
shortly after the crash we in a public
statement
described the mitchell documents
we got almost instant corroboration at
least
instantly from our standpoint a federal
employee
known to us and known to our
organization
showed up at my home within 24 hours
and in a very sophisticated discussion
the upshot of which was that our
organization was uh not well healed
which is true
that we operate at home which is true
and that we could use a hundred thousand
dollars
which is also probably true we did not
sell our copy nor would we at that
point admit that we had a copy of the
mitchell documents
but we now challenge the government to
prosecute us
if they so wish rather than to continue
intimidating us because not only have
they taken into custody and kept for
forty days
our staff investigator without written
charges hearing or
trial but i and another
member of our staff were suckered into a
early morning meeting in a parking lot
near my home
to exchange supposedly documents about
the watergate when we got there
we discovered that the two people that
were there
were fbi agents at least we thought they
were and they told us
that if we don't turn over the mitchell
documents or sell it to the government
as we were
asked that we would go the way of alex
bottoms that we would
be spirited away without petition
without written charge or trial
and end up in the federal prison
hospital in springfield missouri just
like alex battles
that we took to be a direct threat
thereafter we split
we ended up three and a half days later
in
canada after going up and down country
roads to elude uh
pursuers and we made statements in
canada about what happened to us
of course our finances were not such
that we could stay long in canada as if
it were a vacation
and so a few days later on march 30th we
headed back
across the windsor detroit tunnel
to the united states on the way back we
tested the government
we had previously put some of the
mitchell documents on film
and at the border coming back to united
states
we turn them over to the u s customs and
receive the receipt
as contraband and the receipt describes
the documents
as having been stolen from the midway
plane
flight 553 december 8 1972.
when we got back to chicago the us
attorney here
james thompson said that he was acting
as an intermediary for u.s customs and
the fbi
and attempted to deliver to us prints
made from the film
we caught him with a fraud and we threw
the prince back in his face
in a press conference on april 4th 1973
on the 15th floor of the federal
building thereafter
thompson pursued a reporter who took
away the prince that we left on the
floor
and and very casually said that he'd
like to have them back but we have
caught the government with a fraud
our copy of the mitchell documents we
sent out of the western hemisphere
please understand we have been known we
have known about the mitchell documents
since 1971 long before the midway crash
the same documents were used by
congressman daniel rossinkowski of
chicago
prior to the indictment of otto kerner
rostankowski tried to blackmail mitchell
while mitchell was the attorney general
not to proceed with the kerner
indictment it was about september of
thereafter justice and treasury
using my friendship with the media
leaked a story through me i suppose by
hindsight i should not have allowed it
but they used me to leak a story showing
rastankowski's ownership himself of
racetrack stock
which in a way pushed his vehicle off
the road and silenced him
thereafter the mitchell documents went
into limbo and were not seen again until
they were stolen from the midway plane
december 8th
72. no one besides skullneck and bharas
witnessed the 100 000
bribery attempt by the fbi agent and
when skolnik disappeared in canada for
three days a police search was launched
but later skolnik showed up at a windsor
ontario motel
complete with luggage and an aide who
chauffeurs him around
the chicago u.s attorney's office also
reported receiving a call from a baffled
customs officer
it seems that a chicago man had pressed
some documents into his hands
and the agent wanted to know what he
should do with them at this point
chicago u.s attorney james r
thompson got into the act by offering
skulnick amnesty if he would return home
honor about april 11 1973
we received a call from
the friend of the attorney of james
mccord the watergate spy
his attorney is bud fensterwald
and we have known fensterwell for three
years a friend of fensterweld called us
and said that they heard about our
findings facts and so on
about the midway crash being sabotage
and murder
and they invited us to come to
washington to demonstrate these facts
before
some of the watergate defendants they
told us that mr liddy
one of the defendants could not be
turned around but that those defendants
that could be turned around and
persuaded
about this that they would then
challenge or attack the
white house the idea to us was
intriguing and so
we went to washington at our own expense
in order not to
be beholden to fensterworld in a lengthy
discussion in fensterwell's office at
15th avenue northwest washington
on the afternoon of april 16th
we got into a discussion of these facts
we discovered that we were in possession
of a great more
great amount more facts than they had
now step by step mccord's testimony has
been confirming what we already brought
in our civil suit
against the national transportation
board
chairman isabelle burgess which is a
suit pending
the federal government has yet to
dispute our charges
but mccord's testimony before the grand
jury that has been leaking out
has been running parallel to our
findings
namely that mrs hunt was very
instrumental in this that she was the
watergate payoff woman
that she was the direct
representative spokesman had direct
authority from nixon
and was offering some of the watergate
defendants
executive clemency and
of the role of mitchell that we have
described and the
espionage fund what bothered us about
this
is that fensterwald was very
blatant he said that we have nixon
more or less back to the wall and that
it seemed to us at that point that
fensterwald
and mccord had more power than the
president
bud fensterwald denies ever having met
with skullnick in washington
and there are no witnesses to
corroborate the conversation that took
place there
and predictably it's at this point that
skullnick's theory gets very sketchy
now we are not about to be apologists
for nixon we are not one of his
supporters
and we are not a supporter of mitchell
but the problem is this
for several years now mr fensterwald has
run
a group that is not well publicized but
is well known
in the field of a political
assassination research
he runs a group at the address we
described 927 15th avenue northwest
washington
called the committee to investigate
assassinations
notice those initials cia they
are a gigantic documentary depository
a sort of giant filing cabinet for the
entire field
in the western hemisphere of people that
dig up things about political
assassination
the thing is that fensterwald helps
those like myself and others that are in
this field i'm one of
some 200 researchers in that field of
political assassination
as long as we go along with his theories
he helps us
almost everybody that i know in the
field is afraid of him why
he seems to have the access to secret
documents
which when he releases it to us we are
able to confirm
but we must follow his theories and i
locked spears with him in a case
against the national archives three
years ago involving the plot against
president kennedy and the false
imprisonment of abraham bolton
fenced away seems to be the spokesman
for the cia
group now as to the implications of all
that we have discussed
on this tape we believe
from talking to fensterwald and
talking to hunt's attorney mr bittman
that some of the watergate defendants
are double agents in fact
mr bittman and mr fensterwald
joked about it and readily admitted that
they know that so
now there was no real excuse
no real reason to break into the
watergate complex there was no real
secrets there
there might have been reason to tap the
phones of a candidate's office but not
the national committee's office of the
democratic party
we believe that some of the defendants
wanted to be caught there
they wanted to accent part of nixon's
nature and i think it is no dispute that
nixon's nature
is to seek and obtain power by way of
political espionage
deception and fraud for example nixon
first got into office in 1946 as a
congressman
running under against an alleged
communist by the name of jerry voorhees
an incumbent congressman in california
it has not been brought to the public's
attention so far as i know
that jerry voorhees is identified in a
book who's who
in the cia a book banned in this country
that he is in charge has been in charge
of
cia subversion in latin america so this
isn't the first time that nixon
used deception political espionage and
fraud
he used it in 1962 when he ran
unsuccessfully for governor
and some of the of governor of
california some of that has come out
recently
so what the watergate defendants did was
they suckered nixon into a plan
which they led him to believe was his
plan
and they accented the political
espionage that he
already favors what the midway crash
shows that there was murder and sabotage
involved in the same thing
now when president jack kennedy
criticized the cia said he was going to
splinter them and scattered them to the
winds because of the bay of pigs fiasco
in the early 60s they were
pledged really
to punish him another book banned in
this country which was a bestseller in
europe
called farewell america the book
farewell america
points out the cia's role with the
assassination of president kennedy
now we are living in a more
sophisticated time the cia
tried to take over the presidency
in with the assassination of kennedy
what they are now doing through the
watergate defendants
is they are trying to take over and
destroy
the office of presidency so that the
country could be ruled by martial law
and by a committee in other words they
are destroying the idea of
constitutional government in this
country
now we are not for a moment saying that
nixon and mitchell and the others are
not guilty
what we are saying is that there is
another faction involved
more diabolical than nixon
on april 17 1973 while we were in
washington
i myself hand delivered for
mr hunt to the super that's e howard
hunt
to the superintendent of the district of
columbia jail
a letter which was delivered to him
setting forth a summary of these facts
and calling upon hunt as follows
i say mr hunt i cannot bear to believe
that you are
a party to these crimes i ask that you
request the jail warden to permit me to
visit you
so that i can tell you directly the
foregoing in detail
well the word i got back the next day
from his attorney mr william o
bittman 815 connecticut avenue northwest
washington was that i should take it up
with another
one of hunt's lawyers in chicago named
john hayes
the point is that mr hunt is probably
with fensterwald one of the most
important people in our
government he probably is the true head
of the central intelligence agency
and not mr robert schlesinger the letter
informs mr hunt that his wife has been
murdered
and the plane on which she was sabotaged
and we call upon him to cooperate with
us as
of this date we believe that he is not
going to do anything about it
and that he himself in some way is
implicated because he bought a quarter
million dollars of insurance
just before he put her on the plane
as we described in our lawsuit now
pending
mrs hunt was on the way to chicago not
to buy a motel which was
a cover story but to seek
counsel of a just of a very high priced
lawyer in chicago
now understand something hunt and his
wife
are what is known as a cia couple
both working for the cia before they
could get married they needed the agency
permission
the agency does not permit a divorce
because in the process of a divorce
some of the dirty linen is dragged out
which would involve the cia
she did however express to mccord
that she was unhappy with her role as
the
watergate payoff woman she was seeking a
legal way
out and that was the reason she traveled
to chicago
that is now confirmed by mccord's
federal grand jury testimony
the cia has been planning to take over
this country and rule by committee and
by martial law
for some time there's a book coming out
soon called the glass house tapes
which points out how they planned
to take over by martial law and how one
of their people
louis tackwood confessed on october 1971
that were the gop convention to be in
san diego of course they moved it to
miami beach
but were to be in san diego
that there was a plan to bomb the place
blame it on radical hippie freaks and
thereafter
have the president or someone else
declare martial law in a national
emergency and
take over the country there is a whole
background
of violence paid for
by the cia faction or that which is
known as the c
i a in this government and by the way
the c i a is super parliamentary they
neither come or go
by way of any election the c i a
has instigated a portion of the violence
in this country
to be blamed on the so-called left wing
assuming that you can keep all of this
straight a number of obvious questions
and discrepancies come to mind
could all of these people possibly have
been on the same plane because they were
in some way implicated in the watergate
conspiracy
who are the anonymous faa employees and
the toxicologists who gave skolnik the
information
who's telling the truth about the
coroner's report
according to the report there were no
traces of cyanide in either dorothy
hunts or michelle clark's body
was michelle clark of cbs news really
going to break a story on mrs hunt
according to bill small cbs washington
bureau chief
ms clark was anchoring the morning news
in washington and flew home to chicago
frequently to see her family
as early as december small says she
probably didn't even know who mrs hunt
was
and a united lawyer richard street who
testified at the safety board hearing
said that miss clark's body was cremated
three days after the crash at the
request of her parents
not immediately after on the order of
cbs
i spoke with sherman skolnik several
months ago in new york city
in an attempt to get an answer to some
of these questions
this toxicologist is a very
distinguished person and he works
in a hospital that is federally funded
where i to give you the name
his entire project would suddenly lose
their budget and how would i justify
that
i'm not nervous i'm not being evasive
i'm telling you the nature of the
problem
so i am fearful what the government is
going to do in the watergate case
to silence my witnesses and my expert
the expert testimony of people i'm going
to offer what indication do you have
that
some of the men the watergate defendants
in bud fensterwall's office in
washington uh the time that you met them
in
april are double agents or agents i had
a lengthy discussion with
uh mccord's attorney bud fence world
happened to know him for
last three years and he wanted to use
our information for their purpose he
wanted to push
us out of the picture and i understand
his reasons uh in discussing this matter
with him
uh he in a way laughed he says well we
know that some of the watergate people
are double agents
uh mr bittman hunt's attorney mr e
howard hunt
um i spent an hour and a half with him
on april 18th in his office in
washington
and he likewise said the same thing that
he recognized
that one or more of the defendants are
double agents and wanted to be caught
there
you also indicated that uh money
parachuted from
flight 553 the two million dollars i
assume you meant
and if i supply the name of the
eyewitness she would suddenly be found
dead
by uh falling down an elevator shaft or
some other
mystery happening to her look we're well
well aware what happened to the
witnesses
in the investigation of the
assassination of president kennedy
you indicated also that former attorney
general john mitchell owned a large
amount of stock in el paso natural gas
there was no indication that he was
given that stock as opposed to buying it
was there
well he got it by way of a nominee a law
partner of his
just about the time that the justice
department under his supervision
in 1969 was nice enough to drop
300 million dollars worth of anti-trust
charges do you have any indication
of the stock transfers you have them
we do we do we have the records uh
and uh we challenge the government to
prosecute us because we say that these
records were stolen
from flight 553 the government has been
hassling us behind the scenes but does
not want to prosecute us because
it would uh validate what we charge
while you
allege to have all this evidence you
refuse to reveal your informants which
makes it impossible for the press to
prove
well one of one of our informants is now
well known he's he's sitting right
nearby here and you can interview him
but he's a member of your own staff well
uh that way i can be certain of what
what is the nature of the problem
golnick was denied the chance to testify
at the february national transportation
safety board hearing
because he refused to document any of
his allegations
he subsequently filed suit against
isabel burgess chairwoman of the board
and on june 13th she relented allowing
skolnik to testify
during the second session of the hearing
provided he rely on the facts
but through an hour of testimony the man
who had so often accused the press and
the safety board
of covering up the conspiracy did not
supply any new factual material
only his interpretation of the hearing
record the next day on june 14th at 5 30
pm
chairwoman burgess announced that the
board would recess indefinitely
and sherman skullnick was right back
where he started
hotline news presented 24 hours today by
the citizens committee to clean up the
courts
sherman scholar chairman recently they
briefly mentioned the name of
henry crown in some crooked land deals
with tom
keane you may not know it but henry
crown
is a sacred cow the news media dare not
mention him
in a negative manner henry crown owns so
many corporations
he is in a position to hassle the news
media
with cutbacks in advertising
the press will never mention much about
the dishonest
airplane contract the tfx
involving general dynamics in which
crown is the major shareholder
the plane is so rotten they had to
finally
stop making it the book captive city by
the way
was censored major sections about henry
crown
were removed before publication
remember all this next time you see
henry crown's yellow and red
cement truck like many other conspiracy
theories this one seems to blend fact
with coincidence and conjecture
relying heavily on what could
conceivably have taken place
as opposed to what really did take place
still we are left with the undeniable
fact of 50 fbi agents at the scene of
the crash
as well as three nixon administration
officials
who were transferred to key faa united
airlines and national transportation
safety board positions immediately after
the crash
but even if the american public will no
longer swallow watergate as what one
presidential spokesman once described as
a third-rate burglary attempt
it remains to be seen if it will accept
the cia
murder sabotage theory any more readily
than it did with the alleged cia
conspiracy to assassinate president
kennedy
this report was compiled from the new
york times the washington post the
village voice
the new york post the rolling stone
zodiac news service
and interviews with sherman skullnick
i'm john lignito
you're listening to kpfa and kpfb in
berkeley
you